So let's start off by talking
about the basics of collaboration,
make sure we're all on the same page in
terms of what we mean by collaboration.
So there's lots of different words
associated with the idea of collaboration.
The definition that we're gonna
be working with in this module
is collaboration is about working with
others to produce or create something.
So this is a very broad
definition of collaboration.
But let's focus a little bit because we
wanna focus particularly on collaboration
inside organizations.
So our focus is gonna be on collaboration
between employees inside an organization.
Now, why is collaboration important?
Why should we care about
this topic at all?
Well if you've spent any time working
inside organizations you're gonna know you
gotta work with other people
to get things done right.
And so many large organizations
are currently very
focused on trying to understand how to
get the people to work more effectively
together to make them all productive and
more successful in the workplace.
Lots of different kinds of organizations,
these are just some of the ones
that I've done research with.
Or that have come out and said,
your collaboration is really,
really big deal for us and
there are many others like this.
But all the way from
organizations like Microsoft
to very different kinds of organizations
like The World Bank to McKinsey & Company.
Consulting firms Saatchi & Saatchi.
Global advertising organization.
Many organizations around the world have
at the core of what they try to do better.
They say, we really need to
get better at collaboration.
So this is an issue that's currently
facing organizations, small and
large, across the world.
So the big question that we're really
gonna be focussing on in this module is,
how can we improve collaboration
inside organizations?
So that's ultimately the goal
that we wanna be moving towards.
But I'm gonna break this down into four
main areas that we're gonna work through,
through the four segments that are gonna
follow this one in this module.
The first question is how can we describe
collaboration patterns between employees?
So okay,
collaboration matters, what terminology
can we use to talk about collaboration?
And how can that help us to
understand whether we're good or
bad at collaboration
inside our organization?
The second question is,
how can we map the collaboration patterns
inside a particular organization?
Right, so we have some ways to describe
collaboration networks but can we
actually figure out who's collaborating
with whom inside our organization.
Then, how do we evaluate
collaboration patterns?
So maybe we know who's
collaborating with whom.
But is it good or bad, right?
What is it that makes this
form of collaboration good?
Why might it be problematic?
And then the last question is, okay.
If we've discovered that there's some
areas that are really concerning.
Are not going so
well from a collaboration point of view.
How can we improve these
collaboration patterns?
So these are the four questions.
Again, companies are really
concerned about them and
we're gonna be thinking about
as we work through this module.
Now, where does people analytics come in,
right?
People analytics, just a broad definition,
is a data-driven approach
to managing people at work.
So we're gonna try to use data and
analytical techniques to understand and
address those four questions
that we just laid out.
Now here's the thing that I really
want to introduce as the way to think
about collaboration inside organizations.
We have a very powerful set of tools and
techniques
that can be used to analyze collaboration
inside organizations that are called, or
that come out of the rubric, or
come out of the broad platform of
organizational network analysis, right.
And organizational network analysis is
a set of tools and techniques that can
be used to evaluate and ultimately improve
collaboration inside organizations.
So let's just take a quick look at what
an organizational network can look like.
And I'm gonna use this example throughout.
So you're gonna see it many times.
But here's an example of
an organizational network.
So this is a real network that comes
from a new product development team,
this is a team with 15 members.
As you can see, each member is represented
by a dot, and these members happen to come
from three different functional
areas within this organization.
There are some from marketing, some from
finance, some from manufacturing, and
what this network is showing us is
who seeks information from whom.
A one headed arrow means that I
seek information from that person
The two headed arrow means,
I seek information from that person and
they seek information from me.
Right, so
this is an organizational network that can
help us to understand the interactions
with the kinds of collaborations that
are happening inside an organization.
So this is the set of, we're gonna learn
much more about this as we go forward.
As a way to understand
collaboration inside firms.
So when we go back to our four questions
how do we describe Map evaluate,
improve collaboration patterns.
We're gonna use these tools and
techniques that come from
organizational network analysis
to address these questions and
to give us some insight into
the answers to these questions